# Usage Recommendations

{% hint style="info" %}
_PVC and Bandshoppe used to be popular options, but they are far outshone by newer choices and are not included._ \
\
_The_ [#pvc](../other.md#pvc "mention") _(_[other.md](../other.md "mention")_) and_ [pvc-tubes.md](../../weapon-storage/pvc-tubes.md "mention") _(_[Broken link](broken-reference "mention")_) pages may be helpful to you if you are still interested in PVC as a material._ \
\
_As for Bandshoppe, I actively recommend against it for boffers. While incredibly durable, the per-inch weight is not worth the expense and the overall weight of bandshoppe-cored boffers not only makes them more liable to cause injury/concussions, but any injury that would have happened with a lighter weapon will be amplified if instead caused by a bandshoppe weapon that weighs twice as much._
{% endhint %}

<table><thead><tr><th width="252">Core Type</th><th>Notes</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>3/8" Fiberglass Rod</td><td><ul><li>Solid Fiberglass</li><li>Moderately durable, relatively lightweight.</li></ul><ul><li>Good for swung weapons up to 30".</li><li>Ok for when you are making small weapons and want to keep expenses down, but better to use 1/2" Fiberglass or some form of FWET/Carbon, instead, in the long run.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>1/2" Fiberglass Rod</td><td><ul><li>Very durable, but heavy. </li><li>Ok in a pinch or for weapons where weight isn't a concern. </li><li>Good for swung weapons up to 60".</li><li>Can be found in stores.</li><li>Better off using .524 or .602 FWET, if possible.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>.505" FWET (Filament Wound Epoxy Tubing)</td><td><ul><li>Fiberglass Tube</li><li>a.k.a 505 Kitespar</li><li>Lightweight, and relatively affordable.</li><li>Good for swung weapons up to 30".</li><li>Special order only.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>.524" FWET (Filament Wound Epoxy Tubing)</td><td><ul><li>Fiberglass Tube</li></ul><ul><li>a.k.a 524 Kitespar</li></ul><ul><li>Lightweight, and relatively affordable.</li><li>Stronger and stiffer than .505" FWET.</li><li><p>Good for swung weapons up to 42"</p><ul><li>48" when clad with quartered 1/2" PVC.</li></ul></li><li>Special order only.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>.602" FWET (Filament Wound Epoxy Tubing)</td><td><ul><li>Fiberglass Tube</li></ul><ul><li>a.k.a 602 Kitespar</li></ul><ul><li>Lightweight, and relatively affordable.</li><li>Stronger and stiffer than .524" FWET.</li><li><p>Good for swung weapons up to 60".</p><ul><li>Probably best kept to 48-54" without some form of reinforcement, due to flex.</li></ul></li><li>Special order only.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Pultruded Fiberglass Tubes</td><td><ul><li>All of the fibers are aligned parallel to the tube's length due to how these are made, making them relatively stiff, but ultimately quite weak.</li><li>Avoid.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Roll-Wrapped Carbon Fiber Tubes</td><td><ul><li>Can be purchased at predetermined and custom specifications from multiple domestic and foreign vendors so long as you know what will be strong enough for your application.</li><li><p>Different layups of carbon fiber and different finish weaves will produce a tubes of different properties.</p><ul><li>Alternating 0/90 degree unidirectional sheets and 3K Twill for a finish is a simple, reliable, layup.</li></ul></li><li><p>The carbon sheets used to make these come in different strengths, as well. </p><ul><li>230-390 Modulus is a good strength range to be in. </li><li>Higher is stiffer/stronger, but also more brittle and denser/heavier. It's important to strike a balance between the modulus and the dimensions chosen.</li></ul></li><li>If bought in bulk, prices become competitive with, and sometimes better than, FWET.</li><li><p>For swung weapons up to 36"</p><ul><li>Wall thickness ≥ 1 mm</li><li>OD ≥ 13 mm</li><li>Modulus ≥ 230</li></ul></li><li><p>For swung weapons up to 48"</p><ul><li>Wall thickness ≥ 1.5</li><li>OD ≥ 13 mm</li><li>Modulus ≥ 230</li></ul></li><li><p>For swung weapons up to 72"*</p><ul><li>Wall thickness ≥ 2</li><li>OD ≥ 14 mm</li><li>Modulus ≥ 230</li></ul></li><li><p>For swung weapons up to 84"*</p><ul><li>Wall thickness ≥ 2</li><li>OD ≥ 16 mm</li><li>Modulus ≥ 230</li></ul></li><li><p>For swung weapons up to 96"*</p><ul><li>Wall thickness ≥ 2</li><li>OD ≥ 17 mm</li><li>Modulus ≥ 230</li></ul></li></ul><ul><li><p>For piercing weapons up to 144"</p><ul><li>Still working on a recommendation</li></ul><p></p></li></ul><p>* add 12" weapon length for same spec for piercing weapons</p></td></tr><tr><td>Pultruded Carbon Fiber Tubes</td><td><p></p><ul><li>All of the fibers are aligned parallel to the tube's length due to how these are made, making them relatively stiff, but ultimately quite weak.</li></ul><ul><li>Stronger and stiffer than pultruded fiberglass of the same dimensions.</li><li>Avoid.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Graphite</td><td><ul><li>Absurdly lightweight.</li><li>Generally found as old graphite golf clubs, so are inexpensive, but are short and tapered. </li><li>Not as durable as Fiberglass Tubes.</li><li>Good for weapons under 36" that you are trying to make as light as possible and do not care if they break.</li><li>Can be found at thrift stores.</li><li>If you can get good carbon fiber, don't bother with these.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>
