# Usage Recommendations

<table><thead><tr><th width="357">Adhesive/Method</th><th>Notes</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Heat Gun &#x26; Heat-Adhesion*</td><td><ul><li>Process takes skill and patience.</li><li>Best foam to foam connection possible.</li><li>Uses electricity rather than actual adhesives.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Double-Sided Carpet Tape**</td><td><ul><li>Easy to apply.</li><li>"Cures instantly".</li><li>Great for repairs, stab tips, guards/crosspieces, getting other tape to stick better, and for securing handle wraps.</li><li>You could build an entire weapon with this as the only 'adhesive'.</li><li>Depending on the use, it is not as long lasting as actual adhesives.</li><li>Should be used selectively.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>DAP Weldwood Contact Cement</td><td><ul><li>Easy to apply too little or too much.</li><li>Cures very slowly.</li><li>Strong adhesive, effective for all purposes.</li><li>Weakens connection of tape adhesive if it gets on the tape.</li><li>Prone to spilling and spoiling, easy to get debris in the pan.</li><li>Requires disposable brushes to apply well.</li><li>A reliable, but overall cumbersome and inefficient choice.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Super 77 Spray Adhesive</td><td><ul><li>Easy to apply.</li><li>Sets and cures quickly.</li><li>Strong adhesive, effective for all purposes.</li><li>A light spray of this will help support tape adhere better to a surface.</li><li>Best all around adhesive for both effectiveness, ease of use, price, and availability.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Gorilla Glue</td><td><ul><li>Can be messy to apply.</li><li>Cures slowly.</li><li>Generally only useful for foam to core.</li><li>Expands when curing.</li><li>Easy to use too much.</li><li>Adds a lot of weight.</li><li>Better options exist.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Gorilla Heavy Duty Flooring Adhesive</td><td><ul><li>Easy to apply.</li><li>Comes in squeeze tubes and caulking tubes.</li><li>Very effective for foam to core, resists shearing forces well and doesn't delaminate as easily as DAP.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Hot Glue</td><td><ul><li>Easy to apply.</li><li>Sets very quickly.</li><li>Excellent for foam to core, but only for crosspieces and pommels.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>2-Ton Epoxy</td><td><ul><li>Relatively easy to apply.</li><li>Sets and cures relatively quickly.</li><li>Hands down the most overkill option that still makes sense to use for foam to core, but only for crosspieces and pommels.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

\* Covered more in-depth on the [heat-bonding-foam-stub.md](../../build-techniques/general/adhering-materials/heat-bonding-foam-stub.md "mention") page.\
\*\* Covered more in-depth on the [double-sided-tape.md](../tape/double-sided-tape.md "mention") page.
